[ Music ]
If you're watching this module,
you've decided to investigate
online learning as an alternative
to a traditional classroom.
But what will this really mean
for you as a student?
Here we will introduce you
to the world of online learning.
We will show you how it works,
debunk a few common misconceptions
about online learning environments,
and explore some of the differences
you will encounter when
taking online courses
rather than in a
traditional classroom.
Let's start at the beginning.
In an online course,
your instruction is delivered
over the Internet rather than in-person,
in a traditional classroom.
Seems obvious enough, right?
In fact, think of the course
management system (or CMS)
as a virtual classroom.
The CMS is where your instructor will
post all of the course materials,
conduct online discussions
and perhaps other activities,
and receive your assignments.
Additionally, it's where your
instructor will expect you to
read all of the course materials posted there,
participate in the activities created,
and use the CMS to
submit your assignments.
Accessing the CMS is easy.
You can log in using any
internet-capable device:
a computer, a tablet,
or even your smart phone!
This means that you will be able to "go to
class" whenever and wherever you'd like,
as long as you have
an Internet connection.
Online learning is not new,
but it is quickly evolving
to become a more and more powerful
tool for teaching and learning.
That's why we think it's important
to start our discussion
by debunking some of the more common
myths about online learning.
These misconceptions might
already sound familiar,
or they may surprise you.
But they have gotten in the way
of some students
who then found it
difficult or impossible
to complete their online
courses successfully.
We don't want you to be
one of these students.
This is why we've made
this introductory module.
We want to give you a clear idea
of what you can expect
from online learning and
provide you with some tips
that will help you
not only to succeed,
but to excel,
in your online course.
Let's start by addressing
the seven most common myths
about online learning.
Select from the seven tabs
to find out what they are.
(Student) I've heard that
the online class is way easier
than taking the class on campus.
You don't even have to go to class,
you just have to hand in
assignments and you're done.
[ Buzzer sounds ]
(Narrator) The workload for
any particular course
is the same regardless of
the way it's delivered.
And if you really think about it,
there is more reading in an online class
because you have to read
all of your teacher's instructions
rather than hearing
them in the class.
In an online environment,
you need to be more
self-disciplined and motivated
because you won't be facing
the instructor every session.
The good news is that online classes
will give you the flexibility
to learn when you
are ready to learn
and at times that work
with your schedule.
This can be a real plus for
students with busy lives.
In an online class you are not
limited by class times,
so you don't have to
worry about conflicts
with other classes
you want to take,
your work schedule, or
other time constraints.
Whether you decide to
take your classes
in a traditional or an
online setting is up to you.
One option really isn't
easier than the other.
It's all about finding
the best fit
for your life, your time,
and your habits.
(Student) If I'm
taking an online class,
I can turn in assignments
whenever I want, right?
I'll just get all of the
assignments from the instructor
and blast through it in two weeks
rather than wasting a whole semester.
[ Buzzer sounds ]
(Narrator) Regardless of
what you think you may be able
to accomplish at your own speed,
most online courses
are NOT self-paced.
Some instructors reveal
all assignments ahead of time
and others may roll out course topics
and assignments incrementally.
The most successful students
will concentrate on their work
at the pace that the
teacher has laid out.
Give yourself time to really
focus on the course material
and put your best effort
into the assignments.
Don't try to rush though the
course just to "get it done".
The online learning world
is not much different
from traditional campus courses...
The more you put into it,
the more you will get out of it.
The good news is:
Students who successfully
complete online courses
have found that the organizational
skills they learned and used
to complete their online courses
made them better students
in traditional courses
they took later on.
(Student) Online courses are cheaper
than taking classes on campus.
Unless you're
taking a class online,
you're basically wasting
your time and money.
[ Buzzer sounds ]
(Narrator) Tuition and fees
for online courses
are typically the same as
for traditional on-campus classes.
But there are some "hidden" costs
in taking a class on campus
that you may have
not considered.
Let's see if you will be able
to save money by taking classes online.
If the cost saving calculator
estimated that you will save money,
and if you successfully
complete the course, well done!
Our job here then is to make sure
that you can make that happen.
(Student) Professors randomly call on
students for answers in a lecture,
but in an online class
I can fly under the radar.
[ Buzzer sounds ]
(Narrator) Don't be fooled
by the illusion of anonymity
in your virtual classroom.
Even though you and your instructor
may not be able to see one another,
he or she can access reports
on the quantity and quality
of your course participation,
and believe us, they will.
They want to know how you're doing,
and they want to know how they're doing,
and participation will definitely be
a key component of any of your classes.
In fact, sometimes faculty know more
about their online students
than their on-campus students.
The good news is:
Online learning can provide you
with the opportunity to develop
meaningful relationships
with your professors
and with other students
taking the same course.
Conversing online can seem
strange or artificial at first,
but once they get used to it, most
people really enjoy online discussions.
In an online course everyone has
a chance to provide their input,
and you have time to craft
your thoughts before you speak.
You're not bounded by the
end of a class period
or a limited discussion time.
But you'll also need to commit
to participating effectively
and you'll need specific
strategies to make this happen.
(Student) I spend a lot of time
talking to my friends on social media
and I text them
more than I talk to them.
I don't need to learn
any technical skills
to take a class online.
[ Buzzer sounds ]
(Student) I don't really know
my way around a computer,
but clearly my instructor does.
I'll just rely on him or her
to help me figure it out
during the course
of the semester.
My online class will teach me
anything I need to know, right?
[ Buzzer sounds ]
(Narrator) Online learning
generally does not require
extensive technical knowledge,
but you have to understand the basics
about your computer,
the Internet,
and how to use your school's
course management system (CMS).
Watch the "Getting
Tech-Ready" tutorial
for an overview of the
technology you'll be using,
then be sure to seek out information
or tutorials provided by your school
about their CMS before
starting your course.
Take the time to really
understand your online environment
before you get too far
into the semester.
You won't want to wait until
minutes before an assignment is due
to learn which buttons you need
to push in order to submit it.
(Student) Email is basically instant,
and I know my teacher checks
her email all of the time.
So if I have a last-minute question
or don't understand an assignment,
I can just email her and
she should respond right away.
She's definitely up at 10 PM,
and it only takes two minutes
to respond with an answer.
[ Buzzer sounds ]
(Narrator) This is a misconception
that we're sure all instructors
would like to be cleared up
from the outset.
Most of your instructors provide
a maximum email turnaround time,
typically between 24-48 hours.
As a student, you need to
plan ahead as much as possible,
and be sure to have
an alternate solution
if you don't hear back
from your instructor
before an assignment is due.
Remember, your assignments are
your responsibility, not theirs.
Some instructors include a "Questions
About the Course" discussion thread
where they encourage students
to answer one another's questions.
This could be immensely
helpful for you,
and might be a way for you
to help other students in turn.
Remember what we said about
building classroom relationships?
Another approach would be to reach out
to another member of the class
and exchange private emails to support
each other throughout the semester.
Because you're not
meeting with each other
once or more times
every week,
it's easy to feel isolated
in an online course.
Try some of these tactics
so you can connect with others.
You will get a lot more
out of your classes if you do.
Building supportive online
relationships and friendships
requires skill and practice.
The good news is:
Students who develop
good communication skills,
learn to be assertive, and are
able to cooperate and collaborate
well in a virtual environment
will find these skills
highly transferrable and valued
in their personal and professional lives
long after their course is over.
(Student) "If I didn't finish
my assignment on time,
I would just tell my instructor that
I brought the wrong notebook to class
or that my printer ran out of ink.
Now I can just say
my computer crashed,
or that I deleted my file
or I just sent the
wrong attachment.
[ Buzzer sounds ]
(Narrator) Probably none
of these excuses will work.
Remember, your instructors have not
only heard every excuse in the book
probably more than once,
but they are also pretty
tech savvy themselves.
They are, after all, teaching
a college-level online course.
Make sure you fully understand
your instructor's expectations
and that you comply with them
in a timely manner,
and keep an open channel
of communication with them
if you need help
or have questions.
Detailed information about your
instructor's policies and expectations
should be included on
their course syllabus.
Some instructors also provide
checklists for all deadlines.
If your instructor does not,
it might be helpful
to create your own
assignment checklist.
The organizational and
study skills you develop
for your first online course
will put you on the road to success
for all your future
learning experiences,
whether they are online or in
a traditional learning environment.
So now that we've introduced you to
some of the basics of online learning,
let's take the next step in
your quest for online success.
Each lesson in this series includes
a variety of instructional aids,
activities, and resources
that will help to prepare you
as a successful online learner.
And the good news is,
you've already started!